.TH "clusvcmgrd" "8" "Jan 2005" "" "Red Hat Cluster Suite"
.SH "NAME"
Clurgmgrd \- Resource Group (Cluster Service) Manager Daemon
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.B Clurgmgrd
handles management of user-defined cluster services (also known as resource
groups).  This includes handling of user requests including service start,
service disable, service relocate, and service restart.  The service
manager daemon also handles restarting and relocating services in the
event of failures.
.SH "HOW IT WORKS"
.PP
The service manager is spawned by an init script after the cluster
infrastructure has been started and ccsd has been spawned, and only
functions when the cluster is quorate.
.LP 
During initialization, the service manager runs scripts which ensure that all
services are clear to be started.  After that, it determines which services
need to be started and starts them.
.LP
When an event is received, members which are no longer online have their
services taken away from them.  The event should only occur in the case that
the member has been fenced whenever fencing is available.
.LP
When a cluster member determines that it is no longer in the cluster quorum,
the service manager stops all services and waits for a new quorum to form.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.IP \-f
Run in the foreground (do not fork).
.IP \-d
Enable debug-level logging.
.IP \-N
Do not perform stop-before-start.  Combined with the
.I -Z
flag to clusvcadm, this can be used to allow rgmanager to be upgraded
without stopping a given user service or set of services.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
clusvcadm(8), ccsd(8)
