.TH "clusvcadm" "8" "Jan 2005" "" "Red Hat Cluster Suite"
.SH "NAME"
clusvcadm \- Cluster User Service Administration Utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B clusvcadm
.B [\-d
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-e
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-l]
.B [\-u]
.B [\-S]
.B [\-m
.I <member>
.B ]
.B [\-r
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-R
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-M
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-Z
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-U
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-s
.I <service>
.B ]
.B [\-v]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The
.B clusvcadm
command allows an administrator to enable, disable, relocate, and restart
user services in a cluster.  In order to perform cluster service operations,
the cluster daemons must be running (and have quorum) on the member system
on which the command is invoked.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\-d <service>"
Stops and disables the user service named
.I
service
.IP "\-e <service>"
Enables and starts the user service named
.I
service
.IP \-l
Lock services in preparation for cluster shutdown.  This should only
be used if the administrator intends to perform a global, cluster
wide shutdown.  This prevents services from starting (but not stopping,
like
.B -Z
does).  Once the cluster quorum is dissolved, this state is reset.
If a new instance of rgmanager boots while others are locked, the
behavior is undefined.
.IP \-u
Unlock resource group managers.  This allows services to start again. 
.IP "\-S"
Display whether the resource group managers are locked or not.  This
can be used to verify the correct operation of the \fB-l\fR and \fB-u\fR 
options, but is only useful for debugging.
.IP "\-m <member>"
When used in conjunction with either the
.B
\-e
or
.B
\-r
options, this specifies the 
.I
preferred
target member on which to start the 
service.
.IP "\-r <service>"
Relocates the user service named
.I
service
to another cluster member.
.IP "\-R <service>"
Restarts the user service named
.I
service
on the cluster member on which it is currently running.
.IP "\-M <service>"
Use a special "migration" operation to move the user service named
.I
service
to another cluster member.  Currently, this is only useful for
virtual machines.  Use of migration usually requires special
configuration of the local virtual machine manager in order
to work correctly.
.IP "\-Z <service>"
Freezes the service named
.I
service
on the cluster member on which it is currently running.  This will
prevent status checks of the service as well as failover in the
event the node fails or rgmanager is stopped.
.IP "\-U <service>"
Unfreezes the user service named
.I
service
on the cluster member on which it is currently running.  This will
re-enable status checks.
.IP "\-s <service>"
Stops the service named
.I
service
until a member transition or until it is enabled again.

.IP \-v
Display version information and exit.

.SH "NOTES"
Executing
.I -U
(unfreeze) on a service which was frozen in the 
.B started
state while the service owner is offline results in an undefined
(and possibly dangerous) condition.  Manually ensure all resources are
clear before doing this.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
clustat(8)
