.\"  Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH ccs 7

.SH NAME
ccs - Cluster Configuration System

.SH DESCRIPTION
A cluster environment that shares resources has information that is
essential to correct operation which must be available to
every node in the cluster.  This information may include:
names of the nodes composing the cluster, I/O fencing methods, and
more.  \fICCS\fP is the system that makes it possible for the nodes in a
cluster to retrieve the information they need.

.SH OVERVIEW
The following is a generic description of the steps one should take to produce
a working CCS environment.

.SS Step 1
Choose a cluster name.  It is important to determine
a name for the cluster before starting.  The cluster name is what
binds a machine to specific resources that can only be shared by
machines that are members of the same cluster name.

.SS Step 2
Create the directory \fI/etc/cluster\fP.

.SS Step 3
Create the \fI/etc/cluster/cluster.conf\fP file, according to the
\fBcluster.conf(5)\fP man page, on one node in your cluster.

.SS Step 4
Start \fBccsd\fP and test the cluster.conf file by using \fBccs_test\fP.
If you haven't started a cluster manager yet, you should use the 'force'
option to \fBccs_test\fP - see the \fBccs_test(8)\fP man page for more info.

If a failure occurs while parsing the config file, \fBccs_test\fP should
report "ccs_connect failed: No data available" and /var/log/messages
should report "Unable to parse /etc/cluster/cluster.conf".

.SH FORMAT OF THE CCS FILE
See \fBcluster.conf(5)\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
ccsd(8), ccs_tool(8), ccs_test(8), cluster.conf(5)
