.\"  Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH ccs_tool 8

.SH NAME
ccs_tool - The tool used to make online updates of CCS config files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccs_tool
[\fIOPTION\fR].. <\fBcommand\fP>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccs_tool\fP is part of the Cluster Configuration System (CCS).  It
is used to make online updates of CCS config files.  Additionally, it
can be used to upgrade old style (GFS <= 6.0) CCS archives to the new
xml format.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.  Print out the usage.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print the version information.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBupdate\fP \fI<xml file>\fP
This command is used to update the config file that ccsd is working with
while the cluster is operational (i.e. online).  Run this on a single
machine to update all instances of ccsd across the cluster.

If you are using 'cman' as your cluster manager, you will also need to
run \fBcman_tool version -r <new version number>\fP once the update is
complete.  Failure to do so will result in new nodes (or nodes rejoining
after a failure) not being allowed
to join the working set due to version number mismatches.
.TP
\fBupgrade\fP \fI<location>\fP
This command is used to upgrade an old CCS format archive to the new
xml format.  \fI<location>\fP is the location of the old archive,
which can be either a block device archive or a file archive.  The
converted configuration will be printed to stdout.

.SH SEE ALSO
ccs(7), ccsd(8), cluster.conf(5)
