.\"  Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc.  1997-2003  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH ccsd 8

.SH NAME
ccsd - manages the /etc/cluster/cluster.conf file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccsd
[\fIOPTION\fR]..

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBccsd\fP is part of the Cluster Configuration System (CCS) and manages
the cluster.conf file in a cman cluster.  It handles requests for
cluster.conf information made through libccs.  It also keeps the
cluster.conf file in sync among cluster nodes based on the value of
cluster.conf:cluster/config_version.  ccsd may replace the local
cluster.conf file if it discovers a newer version on another node.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-X\fP
Disable all cluster manager (cman) and inter-node interactions. Simply
respond to local libccs requests based on the current cluster.conf file.
.TP
\fB-4\fP
Use IPv4 for inter-node communication.  By default, IPv6 is tried, then IPv4.
.TP
\fB-6\fP
Use IPv6 for inter-node communication.  By default, IPv6 is tried, then IPv4.
.TP
\fB-I\fP
Force use of IP for local communication (disables use of UNIX domain sockets).
If set, \fBccsd\fP will use the specified inter-node communication protocol
(see the \fB-4\fP and \fB-6\fP options).  If one is not specified,
IPv6 is tried, then IPv4.  For backward compatibility, IP connections are
still allowed even when UNIX domain sockets are available.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.  Print out the usage syntax.
.TP
\fB-m <multicast address>\fP
Used to specify the multicast address.  The keyword "default" can be used,
in which case "ff02::3:1" is used for IPv6 and "224.0.2.5" is used for IPv4.

If you are using IPv4, the default action is to use broadcast.  Specifying
this option will cause multicast to be used in that instance.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
No daemon.  Run in the foreground.
.TP
\fB-P <port identifier>:<port number>\fP
You have the option of specifying the port numbers used by ccsd.  The port
identifier is either: b, c, or f.  "b" is the port which ccsd attempts to
communicate with ccsd processes on other machines, via broadcast/multicast, to
obtain or validate its config file (cluster.conf).  This is known as the backend
port.  "c" is the base port number of two consecutive ports used by ccsd
processes to communicate cluster membership information.  This is known as the
cluster base port.  "f" is the port number that listens for information requests
from the CCS library (or programs using it).  This is known as the frontend port.

So, to change the frontend port one might specify \fI-P f:60000\fP.
.TP
\fB-t <ttl>\fP
Set the multicast threshold (aka time to live).
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print the version information.
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Enable debugging output.

.SH SEE ALSO
ccs(7), cman(5), ccs_tool(8), ccs_test(8), cluster.conf(5)

