.TH gfs2_fsck 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_fsck - Offline GFS2 file system checker

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_fsck
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDEVICE\fR

.SH WARNING
All GFS2 nodes \fImust\fP have the GFS2 filesystem unmounted before running
gfs2_fsck.  Failure to unmount all nodes may result in filesystem corruption.

.SH DESCRIPTION
gfs2_fsck will check that the GFS2 file system on a device is structurally valid.
It should not be run on a mounted file system.  If file system corruption is
detected, it will attempt to repair the file system.  There is a limit to what
gfs2_fsck can do.  If important file system structures are destroyed, such that
the checker cannot determine what the repairs should be, reparations could
fail.

GFS2 is a journaled file system, and as such should be able to repair damages to
the file system on its own.  However, faulty hardware has the ability to write
incomplete blocks to a file system thereby causing corruption that GFS2 cannot
fix.  The first step to ensuring a healthy file system is the selection of
reliable hardware (i.e. storage systems that will write complete blocks - even
in the event of power failure).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.

This prints out the proper command line usage syntax.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
No to all questions.

By specifying this option, gfs2_fsck will only show the changes that
would be made, but not make any changes to the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Version.

Print out the program version information.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose operation.

Print more information while running.
.TP
\fB-y\fP
Yes to all questions.

By specifying this option, gfs2_fsck will not prompt before making
changes.
