.\"  Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc.  1997-2003  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.

.TH gfs2_mkfs 8

.SH NAME
gfs2_mkfs - Make a GFS2 filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gfs2_mkfs
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDEVICE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
gfs2_mkfs is used to create a Global File System.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIBlockSize\fR 
Set the filesystem block size to \fIBlockSize\fR (must be a power of
two).  The minimum block size is 512.  The FS block size cannot exceed
the machine's memory page size.  On the most architectures (i386,
x86_64, s390, s390x), the memory page size is 4096 bytes.  On other
architectures it may be bigger.  The default block size is 4096 bytes.
In general, GFS2 filesystems should not deviate from the default value.
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Enable debugging output.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print  out  a  help  message  describing  available
options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-J\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR 
The size of the journals in Megabytes. The default journal size is 
128 megabytes.  The minimum size is 32 megabytes.
.TP
\fB-j\fP \fINumber\fR 
The number of journals for gfs2_mkfs to create.  You need at least one
journal per machine that will mount the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-O\fP
This option prevents gfs2_mkfs from asking for confirmation before writing
the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fILockProtoName\fR 
LockProtoName is the name of the  locking  protocol to use.  Acceptable
locking protocols are \fIlock_dlm\fR, \fIlock_gulm\fR or if you are using GFS2
as a local filesystem (\fB1 node only\fP), you can specify the
\fIlock_nolock\fR protocol.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Be quiet.  Don't print anything.
.TP
\fB-r\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR
gfs2_mkfs will try to make Resource Groups about this big.
The default is 256 MB.
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIBlocks\fR 
Journal segment size in filesystem blocks.  This value must be at
least two and not large enough to produce a segment size greater than
4MB.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fILockTableName\fR 
The lock table field appropriate to the lock module you're using.
It is \fIclustername:fsname\fR.
Clustername must match that in cluster.conf; only members of this
cluster are permitted to use this file system.
Fsname is a unique file system name used to distinguish this GFS2 file
system from others created (1 to 16 characters).  Lock_nolock doesn't
use this field.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print program version information, then exit.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
gfs2_mkfs -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_dlm -j 2 /dev/vg0/mygfs2
This will make a Global File System on the block device
"/dev/vg0/mygfs2".  It will belong to "mycluster" and register itself
as wanting locking for "mygfs2".  It will use DLM for locking and make
two journals.
.TP
gfs2_mkfs -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_gulm -j 2 /dev/vg0/mygfs2
This will make a Global File System on the block device
"/dev/vg0/mygfs2".  It will belong to "mycluster" and register itself
as wanting locking for "mygfs2".  It will use GULM for locking and make
two journals.
