.TH mkfs.gfs2 8

.SH NAME
mkfs.gfs2 - Make a GFS2 filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.gfs2
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDEVICE\fR \fI[ block-count ]\fR 

.SH DESCRIPTION
mkfs.gfs2 is used to create a Global File System.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIBlockSize\fR 
Set the filesystem block size to \fIBlockSize\fR (must be a power of
two).  The minimum block size is 512.  The FS block size cannot exceed
the machine's memory page size.  On the most architectures (i386,
x86_64, s390, s390x), the memory page size is 4096 bytes.  On other
architectures it may be bigger.  The default block size is 4096 bytes.
In general, GFS2 filesystems should not deviate from the default value.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR
Initial size of each journal's quota change file
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Enable debugging output.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print  out  a  help  message  describing  available
options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-J\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR 
The size of the journals in Megabytes. The default journal size is 
128 megabytes.  The minimum size is 8 megabytes.
.TP
\fB-j\fP \fINumber\fR 
The number of journals for gfs2_mkfs to create.  You need at least one
journal per machine that will mount the filesystem.  If this option is
not specified, one journal will be created.
.TP
\fB-O\fP
This option prevents gfs2_mkfs from asking for confirmation before writing
the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fILockProtoName\fR 
LockProtoName is the name of the  locking  protocol to use.  Acceptable
locking protocols are \fIlock_dlm\fR (for shared storage) or if you are
using GFS2 as a local filesystem (\fB1 node only\fP), you can specify the
\fIlock_nolock\fR protocol.  If this option is not specified,
\fIlock_dlm\fR protocol will be assumed.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Be quiet.  Don't print anything.
.TP
\fB-r\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR
gfs2_mkfs will try to make Resource Groups about this big.
Minimum RG size is 32 MB.  Maximum RG size is 2048 MB.
A large RG size may increase performance on very large file systems.
If not specified, mkfs.gfs2 will choose the RG size based on the size
of the file system: average size file systems will have 256 MB RGs, and
bigger file systems will have bigger RGs for better performance.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fILockTableName\fR 
The lock table field appropriate to the lock module you're using.
It is \fIclustername:fsname\fR.
Clustername must match that in cluster.conf; only members of this
cluster are permitted to use this file system.
Fsname is a unique file system name used to distinguish this GFS2 file
system from others created (1 to 16 characters).  Lock_nolock doesn't
use this field.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIMegaBytes\fR
Initial size of each journal's unlinked tag file
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print program version information, then exit.

.TP
[ \fIblock-count\fR ]
Make the file system this many blocks in size.  If not specified, the
entire length of the specified device is used.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
gfs2_mkfs -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_dlm -j 2 /dev/vg0/mygfs2
This will make a Global File System on the block device
"/dev/vg0/mygfs2".  It will belong to "mycluster" and register itself
as wanting locking for "mygfs2".  It will use DLM for locking and make
two journals.
.TP
gfs2_mkfs -t mycluster:mygfs2 -p lock_nolock -j 3 /dev/vg0/mygfs2
This will make a Global File System on the block device
"/dev/vg0/mygfs2".  It will belong to "mycluster" and but have no
cluster locking.  It will have three journals.
