.TH "cmannotifyd" "8" "November 2008" "" "CMAN Notification Daemon"
.SH "NAME"
cmannotifyd \- CMAN Notification Daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcmannotifyd [\-f] [\-d]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \fBcmannotifyd\fP daemon talks to CMAN and provides a mechanism to notify
external entities about cluster changes.

CMAN dispatches 3 kind of notifications:

\- CMAN_REASON_TRY_SHUTDOWN when cman requests to all clients if it is allowed
to shutdown.

\- CMAN_REASON_STATECHANGE when cman detects a node joining or leaving the
cluster.

\- CMAN_REASON_CONFIG_UPDATE when a configuration change event has been
detected/requested.

These notifications are then dispatched to the shell script 
.B cman_notify 
in the environment variable CMAN_NOTIFICATION.

.B cman_notify
will then execute all the scripts in the configured notification
directory (default: /etc/cluster/cman-notify.d) passing a very minimal set of
envvars including, of course, the CMAN_NOTIFICATION= type.
The execution order is set by the filename as shown by "LC_ALL=C ls -las".

.B cmannotifyd 
logs are stored in the default log file
(/var/log/cluster/cmannotifyd.log).

.B cman_notify 
logs are stored in the default log file
(/var/log/cluster/cman_notify.log). By default the output from the scripts
executed by 
.B cman_notify
is redirected to /dev/null.
Users can either set CMAN_NOTIFICATION_DEBUG=1 in their environment or
set proper debug configuration in cluster.conf to redirect scripts output
to the cman_notify log file.

.SH "NOTES"
cmannotifyd does not block on cman_notify nor check the exit
status of the script. 

Notifications are dispatched in the same order as they
arrive, one by one.

CMAN_REASON_TRY_SHUTDOWN is passed to scripts for information only, they
can not influence cman's decsion about whether or not to shut down.

CMAN_REASON_STATECHANGE also implies CMAN_NOTIFICATION_QUORUM exported
in the environment. CMAN_NOTIFICATION_QUORUM will be set to 1 (when the node
is part of a quorate cluster) or 0 (otherwise).

A template for cman_notify scripts can be found in the doc/ directory.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\-f"
Run in the foreground (do not fork / daemonize).
.IP "\-d"
Enable debug output.
