.TH "QDisk" "5" "20 Feb 2007" "" "Cluster Quorum Disk"
.SH "NAME"
qdisk \- a disk-based quorum daemon for CMAN / Linux-Cluster
.SH "1. Overview"
.SH "1.1 Problem"
In some situations, it may be necessary or desirable to sustain
a majority node failure of a cluster without introducing the need for
asymmetric cluster configurations (e.g. client-server, or heavily-weighted
voting nodes).

.SH "1.2. Design Requirements"
* Ability to sustain 1..(n-1)/n simultaneous node failures, without the
danger of a simple network partition causing a split brain.  That is, we
need to be able to ensure that the majority failure case is not merely
the result of a network partition.

* Ability to use external reasons for deciding which partition is the 
the quorate partition in a partitioned cluster.  For example, a user may
have a service running on one node, and that node must always be the master
in the event of a network partition.  Or, a node might lose all network
connectivity except the cluster communication path - in which case, a
user may wish that node to be evicted from the cluster.

* Integration with CMAN.  We must not require CMAN to run with us (or
without us).  Linux-Cluster does not require a quorum disk normally -
introducing new requirements on the base of how Linux-Cluster operates
is not allowed.

* Data integrity.  In order to recover from a majority failure, fencing
is required.  The fencing subsystem is already provided by Linux-Cluster.

* Non-reliance on hardware or protocol specific methods (i.e. SCSI
reservations).  This ensures the quorum disk algorithm can be used on the
widest range of hardware configurations possible.

* Little or no memory allocation after initialization.  In critical paths
during failover, we do not want to have to worry about being killed during
a memory pressure situation because we request a page fault, and the Linux
OOM killer responds...

.SH "1.3. Hardware Considerations and Requirements"
.SH "1.3.1. Concurrent, Synchronous, Read/Write Access"
This quorum daemon requires a shared block device with concurrent read/write
access from all nodes in the cluster.  The shared block device can be
a multi-port SCSI RAID array, a Fiber-Channel RAID SAN, a RAIDed iSCSI
target, or even GNBD.  The quorum daemon uses O_DIRECT to write to the
device.

.SH "1.3.2. Bargain-basement JBODs need not apply"
There is a minimum performance requirement inherent when using disk-based
cluster quorum algorithms, so design your cluster accordingly.  Using a
cheap JBOD with old SCSI2 disks on a multi-initiator bus will cause 
problems at the first load spike.  Plan your loads accordingly; a node's
inability to write to the quorum disk in a timely manner will cause the
cluster to evict the node.  Using host-RAID or multi-initiator parallel
SCSI configurations with the qdisk daemon is unlikely to work, and will
probably cause administrators a lot of frustration.  That having been
said, because the timeouts are configurable, most hardware should work
if the timeouts are set high enough.

.SH "1.3.3. Fencing is Required"
In order to maintain data integrity under all failure scenarios, use of
this quorum daemon requires adequate fencing, preferably power-based
fencing.  Watchdog timers and software-based solutions to reboot the node
internally, while possibly sufficient, are not considered 'fencing' for 
the purposes of using the quorum disk.

.SH "1.4. Limitations"
* At this time, this daemon supports a maximum of 16 nodes.  This is
primarily a scalability issue: As we increase the node count, we increase
the amount of synchronous I/O contention on the shared quorum disk.

* Cluster node IDs must be statically configured in cluster.conf and
must be numbered from 1..16 (there can be gaps, of course).

* Cluster node votes should be more or less equal.

* CMAN must be running before the qdisk program can operate in full
capacity.  If CMAN is not running, qdisk will wait for it.

* CMAN's eviction timeout should be at least 2x the quorum daemon's
to give the quorum daemon adequate time to converge on a master during a
failure + load spike situation.

* For 'all-but-one' failure operation, the total number of votes assigned
to the quorum device should be equal to or greater than the total number
of node-votes in the cluster.  While it is possible to assign only one
(or a few) votes to the quorum device, the effects of doing so have not
been explored.

* For 'tiebreaker' operation in a two-node cluster, unset CMAN's two_node
flag (or set it to 0), set CMAN's expected votes to '3', set each node's
vote to '1', and set qdisk's vote count to '1' as well.  This will allow
the cluster to operate if either both nodes are online, or a single node &
the heuristics.

* Currently, the quorum disk daemon is difficult to use with CLVM if
the quorum disk resides on a CLVM logical volume.  CLVM requires a
quorate cluster to correctly operate, which introduces a chicken-and-egg
problem for starting the cluster: CLVM needs quorum, but the quorum daemon
needs CLVM (if and only if the quorum device lies on CLVM-managed storage).
One way to work around this is to *not* set the cluster's expected votes
to include the quorum daemon's votes.  Bring all nodes online, and start
the quorum daemon *after* the whole cluster is running.  This will allow
the expected votes to increase naturally.

.SH "2. Algorithms"
.SH "2.1. Heartbeating & Liveliness Determination"
Nodes update individual status blocks on the quorum disk at a user-
defined rate.  Each write of a status block alters the timestamp, which
is what other nodes use to decide whether a node has hung or not.  If,
after a user-defined number of 'misses' (that is, failure to update a
timestamp), a node is declared offline.  After a certain number of 'hits'
(changed timestamp + "i am alive" state), the node is declared online.

The status block contains additional information, such as a bitmask of
the nodes that node believes are online.  Some of this information is
used by the master - while some is just for performance recording, and
may be used at a later time.  The most important pieces of information
a node writes to its status block are:

.in 12
- Timestamp
.br
- Internal state (available / not available)
.br
- Score
.br
- Known max score (may be used in the future to detect invalid configurations)
.br
- Vote/bid messages
.br
- Other nodes it thinks are online
.in 0

.SH "2.2. Scoring & Heuristics"
The administrator can configure up to 10 purely arbitrary heuristics, and
must exercise caution in doing so.  At least one administrator-
defined heuristic is required for operation, but it is generally a good
idea to have more than one heuristic.  By default, only nodes scoring over
1/2 of the total maximum score will claim they are available via the
quorum disk, and a node (master or otherwise) whose score drops too low
will remove itself (usually, by rebooting).

The heuristics themselves can be any command executable by 'sh -c'.  For
example, in early testing the following was used:

.ti 12
<\fBheuristic \fP\fIprogram\fP\fB="\fP[ -f /quorum ]\fB" \fP\fIscore\fP\fB="\fP10\fB" \fP\fIinterval\fP\fB="\fP2\fB"/>\fP

This is a literal sh-ism which tests for the existence of a file called
"/quorum".  Without that file, the node would claim it was unavailable.
This is an awful example, and should never, ever be used in production,
but is provided as an example as to what one could do...

Typically, the heuristics should be snippets of shell code or commands which
help determine a node's usefulness to the cluster or clients.  Ideally, you
want to add traces for all of your network paths (e.g. check links, or
ping routers), and methods to detect availability of shared storage.

.SH "2.3. Master Election"
Only one master is present at any one time in the cluster, regardless of
how many partitions exist within the cluster itself.  The master is
elected by a simple voting scheme in which the lowest node which believes
it is capable of running (i.e. scores high enough) bids for master status.
If the other nodes agree, it becomes the master.  This algorithm is 
run whenever no master is present.

If another node comes online with a lower node ID while a node is still
bidding for master status, it will rescind its bid and vote for the lower
node ID.  If a master dies or a bidding node dies, the voting algorithm
is started over.  The voting algorithm typically takes two passes to
complete.

Master deaths take marginally longer to recover from than non-master
deaths, because a new master must be elected before the old master can
be evicted & fenced.

.SH "2.4. Master Duties"
The master node decides who is or is not in the master partition, as
well as handles eviction of dead nodes (both via the quorum disk and via
the linux-cluster fencing system by using the cman_kill_node() API).

.SH "2.5. How it All Ties Together"
When a master is present, and if the master believes a node to be online,
that node will advertise to CMAN that the quorum disk is available.  The
master will only grant a node membership if:

.in 12
(a) CMAN believes the node to be online, and
.br
(b) that node has made enough consecutive, timely writes
.in 16
to the quorum disk, and
.in 12
(c) the node has a high enough score to consider itself online.
.in 0

.SH "3. Configuration"
.SH "3.1. The <quorumd> tag"
This tag is a child of the top-level <cluster> tag.

.in 8
\fB<quorumd\fP
.in 9
\fIinterval\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12 
This is the frequency of read/write cycles, in seconds.

.in 9
\fItko\fP\fB="\fP10\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the number of cycles a node must miss in order to be declared dead.

.in 9
\fItko_up\fP\fB="\fPX\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the number of cycles a node must be seen in order to be declared
online.  Default is \fBfloor(tko/3)\fP.

.in 9
\fIupgrade_wait\fP\fB="\fP2\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the number of cycles a node must wait before initiating a bid
for master status after heuristic scoring becomes sufficient.  The
default is 2.  This can not be set to 0, and should not exceed \fBtko\fP.

.in 9
\fImaster_wait\fP\fB="\fPX\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the number of cycles a node must wait for votes before declaring
itself master after making a bid.  Default is \fBfloor(tko/2)\fP. 
This can not be less than 2, must be greater than tko_up, and should not
exceed \fBtko\fP.

.in 9
\fIvotes\fP\fB="\fP3\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the number of votes the quorum daemon advertises to CMAN when it
has a high enough score.

.in 9
\fIlog_level\fP\fB="\fP4\fB"\fP
.in 12
This controls the verbosity of the quorum daemon in the system logs.
0 = emergencies; 7 = debug.

.in 9
\fIlog_facility\fP\fB="\fPdaemon\fB"\fP
.in 12
This controls the syslog facility used by the quorum daemon when logging.
For a complete list of available facilities, see \fBsyslog.conf(5)\fP.
The default value for this is 'daemon'.

.in 9
\fIstatus_file\fP\fB="\fP/foo\fB"\fP
.in 12
Write internal states out to this file periodically ("-" = use stdout).
This is primarily used for debugging.  The default value for this 
attribute is undefined.

.in 9
\fImin_score\fP\fB="\fP3\fB"\fP
.in 12
Absolute minimum score to be consider one's self "alive".  If omitted,
or set to 0, the default function "floor((n+1)/2)" is used, where \fIn\fP
is the total of all of defined heuristics' \fIscore\fP attribute.  This
must never exceed the sum of the heuristic scores, or else the quorum
disk will never be available.

.in 9
\fIreboot\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
If set to 0 (off), qdiskd will *not* reboot after a negative transition
as a result in a change in score (see section 2.2).  The default for
this value is 1 (on).

.in 9
\fIallow_kill\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
If set to 0 (off), qdiskd will *not* instruct to kill nodes it thinks
are dead (as a result of not writing to the quorum disk).  The default
for this value is 1 (on).

.in 9
\fIparanoid\fP\fB="\fP0\fB"\fP
.in 12
If set to 1 (on), qdiskd will watch internal timers and reboot the node
if it takes more than (interval * tko) seconds to complete a quorum disk
pass.  The default for this value is 0 (off).

.in 9
\fIscheduler\fP\fB="\fPrr\fB"\fP
.in 12
Valid values are 'rr', 'fifo', and 'other'.  Selects the scheduling queue
in the Linux kernel for operation of the main & score threads (does not
affect the heuristics; they are always run in the 'other' queue).  Default
is 'rr'.  See sched_setscheduler(2) for more details.

.in 9
\fIpriority\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
Valid values for 'rr' and 'fifo' are 1..100 inclusive.  Valid values
for 'other' are -20..20 inclusive.  Sets the priority of the main & score
threads.  The default value is 1 (in the RR and FIFO queues, higher numbers
denote higher priority; in OTHER, lower values denote higher priority).

.in 9
\fIstop_cman\fP\fB="\fP0\fB"\fP
.in 12
Ordinarily, cluster membership is left up to CMAN, not qdisk.
If this parameter is set to 1 (on), qdiskd will tell CMAN to leave the
cluster if it is unable to initialize the quorum disk during startup.  This
can be used to prevent cluster participation by a node which has been 
disconnected from the SAN.  The default for this value is 0 (off).

.in 9
\fIuse_uptime\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
If this parameter is set to 1 (on), qdiskd will use values from
/proc/uptime for internal timings.  This is a bit less precise
than \fBgettimeofday(2)\fP, but the benefit is that changing the 
system clock will not affect qdiskd's behavior - even if \fBparanoid\fP
is enabled.  If set to 0, qdiskd will use \fBgettimeofday(2)\fP, which
is more precise.  The default for this value is 1 (on / use uptime).

.in 9
\fIdevice\fP\fB="\fP/dev/sda1\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the device the quorum daemon will use.  This device must be the
same on all nodes.

.in 9
\fIlabel\fP\fB="\fPmylabel\fB"\fP
.in 12
This overrides the device field if present.  If specified, the quorum
daemon will read /proc/partitions and check for qdisk signatures
on every block device found, comparing the label against the specified
label.  This is useful in configurations where the block device name
differs on a per-node basis.

.in 9
\fIcman_label\fP\fB="\fPmylabel\fB"/>\fP
.in 12
This overrides the label advertised to CMAN if present.  If specified,
the quorum daemon will register with this name instead of the actual
device name.

.in 9
\fImax_error_cycles\fP\fB="\fP0\fB"/>\fP
.in 12
If we receive an I/O error during a cycle, we do not poll CMAN and tell
it we are alive.  If specified, this value will cause qdiskd to exit
after the specified number of consecutive cycles during which I/O errors
occur.  The default is 0 (no maximum).

.in 8
\fB/>\fP
.in 0

.SH "3.2.  The <heuristic> tag"
This tag is a child of the <quorumd> tag.

.in 8
\fB<heuristic\fP
.in 9
\fIprogram\fP\fB="\fP/test.sh\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the program used to determine if this heuristic is alive.  This
can be anything which may be executed by \fI/bin/sh -c\fP.  A return
value of zero indicates success; anything else indicates failure.  This
is required.

.in 9
\fIscore\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the weight of this heuristic.  Be careful when determining scores
for heuristics.  The default score for each heuristic is 1.

.in 9
\fIinterval\fP\fB="\fP2\fB"\fP
.in 12
This is the frequency (in seconds) at which we poll the heuristic.  The
default interval for every heuristic is 2 seconds.
.in 0

.in 9
\fItko\fP\fB="\fP1\fB"\fP
.in 12
After this many failed attempts to run the heuristic, it is considered DOWN,
and its score is removed.  The default tko for each heuristic is 1, which 
may be inadequate for things such as 'ping'.
.in 8
\fB/>\fP
.in 0


.SH "3.3. Examples"
.SH "3.3.1. 3 cluster nodes & 3 routers"
.in 8
<cman expected_votes="6" .../>
.br
<clusternodes>
.in 12
<clusternode name="node1" votes="1" ... />
.br
<clusternode name="node2" votes="1" ... />
.br
<clusternode name="node3" votes="1" ... />
.in 8
</clusternodes>
.br
<quorumd interval="1" tko="10" votes="3" label="testing">
.in 12
<heuristic program="ping A -c1 -t1" score="1" interval="2" tko="3"/>
.br
<heuristic program="ping B -c1 -t1" score="1" interval="2" tko="3"/>
.br
<heuristic program="ping C -c1 -t1" score="1" interval="2" tko="3"/>
.br
.in 8
</quorumd>

.SH "3.3.2. 2 cluster nodes & 1 IP tiebreaker"
.in 8
<cman two_node="0" expected_votes="3" .../>
.br
<clusternodes>
.in 12
<clusternode name="node1" votes="1" ... />
.br
<clusternode name="node2" votes="1" ... />
.in 8
</clusternodes>
.br
<quorumd interval="1" tko="10" votes="1" label="testing">
.in 12
<heuristic program="ping A -c1 -t1" score="1" interval="2" tko="3"/>
.br
.in 8
</quorumd>
.in 0


.SH "3.4. Heuristic score considerations"
* Heuristic timeouts should be set high enough to allow the previous run
of a given heuristic to complete.

* Heuristic scripts returning anything except 0 as their return code 
are considered failed.

* The worst-case for improperly configured quorum heuristics is a race
to fence where two partitions simultaneously try to kill each other.

.SH "3.5. Creating a quorum disk partition"
The mkqdisk utility can create and list currently configured quorum disks
visible to the local node; see
.B mkqdisk(8)
for more details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkqdisk(8), qdiskd(8), cman(5), syslog.conf(5), gettimeofday(2)
