.TH cluster.conf 5

.SH NAME
cluster.conf - configuration file for cman, fence, dlm, gfs, rgmanager

.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBcluster.conf\fP file is located in the /etc/cluster directory.  It
is the source of information used by cman, fence, dlm, gfs and rgmanager.
It's accessed indirectly through libccs (see \fBccs(7)\fP).  This file
contains all the information needed for the cluster to operate, such as
what nodes are in the cluster and how to I/O fence those nodes.

This man page describes the generic contents of the \fBcluster.conf\fP
file.  For other information see man pages for cman(5), fenced(8) and
dlm_controld(8).

\fBcluster.conf\fP is an XML file.  It has one top-level \fIcluster\fP
section containing everything else.  The cluster section has two mandatory
attributes: \fIname\fP and \fIconfig_version\fP.  \fIname\fP can be up to
16 characters long and specifies the name of the cluster.  It is important
that this name is unique from other clusters the user might set up.
\fIconfig_version\fP is a number used to identify the revision level of
the \fBcluster.conf\fP file.  Given this information, your
\fBcluster.conf\fP file might look something like:

  <cluster name="alpha" config_version="1">
  </cluster>

.SS Nodes

The set of nodes that make up the cluster are defined under the
\fIclusternodes\fP section.  A \fIclusternode\fP section defines each
node.  A clusternode has two mandatory attributes:
.I name
and
.I nodeid

The name should correspond to the hostname (the fully qualified name is
generally not necessary) on the network interface to be used for cluster
communication.  Nodeid's must be greater than zero and unique.

  <cluster name="alpha" config_version="1">
          <clusternodes>
                  <clusternode name="node-01" nodeid="1">
                  </clusternode>

                  <clusternode name="node-02" nodeid="2">
                  </clusternode>

                  <clusternode name="node-03" nodeid="3">
                  </clusternode>
          </clusternodes>
  </cluster>

The next step in completing cluster.conf is adding fencing information;
see fenced(8).

.SH SEE ALSO
ccs(7), ccs_tool(8), ccsd(8), cman(5), fenced(8), dlm_controld(8)

