.\"  Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc.  1997-2003  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH fence_ibmblade 8

.SH NAME
fence_ibmblade - I/O Fencing agent for IBM BladeCenter 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_ibmblade
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_ibmblade is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with IBM BladeCenter 
chassis. It issues SNMP Set request to BladeCenter chassis, rebooting, powering
up or down the specified Blade Server. 

fence_ibmblade accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.
fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_ibmblade 
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address of the BladeCenter chassis. 
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcommunity\fP
SNMP community string to use.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIport\fP
The Blade port number to disable.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fP
The action required.  Reboot (default), On or off.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet mode: print only error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_ibmblade.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the switch.
.TP
\fIcommunity = < param >\fR
SNMP community.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
The action required.  reboot (default), on or off.
.TP
\fIport = < param >\fR
The Blade port number to disable.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
