.TH fence_egenera 8

.SH NAME
fence_egenera - I/O Fencing agent for the Egenera BladeFrame

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_egenera
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_egenera is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the Egenera
BladeFrame.  It logs into a control blade (cserver) via ssh and operates
on a processing blade (pserver) identified by the pserver name and the 
logical process area network (LPAN) that it is in.  fence_egenera requires
that ssh keys have been setup so that the fence_egenera does not require
a password to authenticate.  Refer to ssh(8) for more information on setting
up ssh keys.

fence_egenera accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
Fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_egenera 
can also be run by itself with command line options.  

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcserver\fR
The cserver to ssh to.  cserver can be in the form user@hostname to
specify a different user to login as.
.TP
\fB-h\fP 
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlpan\fR
the lpan to operate on
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fR
The action required.  reboot (default), off, on or status.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpserver\fR
the pserver to operate on
.TP
\fB-q\fP
quite mode.  suppress output.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIaction = < param >\fR
The action required.  reboot (default), off, on or status.
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_apc.
.TP
\fIcserver = < param >\fR
The cserver to ssh to.  cserver can be in the form user@hostname to
specify a different user to login as.
.TP
\fIlpan = < param >\fR
The lpan to operate on
.TP
\fIpserver = < param >\fR
The pserver to operate on
.TP
\fIesh = < param >\fR
The path to the esh command on the cserver (default is /opt/panmgr/bin/esh)

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), ssh(8)
