.TH fence_manual 8

.SH NAME
fence_manual - program run by fenced as a part of manual I/O Fencing

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_manual
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_manual is run by fenced.  It creates a fifo and waits for 
its counter-part fence_ack_manual(8) to acknowledge that a failed node
has been reset.  fence_ack_manual(8) should only be run after the operator
has reset the faulty node.  While waiting for the manual acknowledgement,
fence_manual also watches for the faulty node to rejoin the cluster;
if it does, it's taken as an acknowledgement and completes.

Note:  fence_manual is provided for use during testing and evaluation
only.  Sites should not use fence_manual as the primary fencing method
on a production cluster.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
quiet mode, no output.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInodename\fP
The node name (usually hostname) of the machine that needs to be reset or disconnected from shared storage.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_manual.
.TP
\fInodename = < param >\fR
The node name (usually hostname) of the machine that needs to be reset or disconnected from storage.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < param >\fR
IP address or hostname of the machine that needs to be reset or disconnected from storage.  (Deprecated; use nodename instead.)

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), fence_ack_manual(8)
