.\"  Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc.  1997-2003  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH fence_tool 8

.SH NAME
fence_tool - A program to join and leave the fence domain

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_tool
<\fBjoin | leave | wait\fP> 
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfence_tool\fP is a program used to join or leave the default fence
domain.  Specifically, it starts the fence daemon (fenced) to join the
domain and kills fenced to leave the domain.  Fenced can be started
and stopped directly without using this program, but fence_tool takes
some added steps that are often helpful.

Before joining or leaving the fence domain, fence_tool waits for the
cluster be in a quorate state.  The user can cancel fence_tool while it's
waiting for quorum.  It's generally nicer to block waiting for quorum here
than to have the fence daemon itself waiting to join or leave the domain
while the cluster is inquorate.

Since \fBfence_tool join\fP is the usual way of starting fenced, the
fenced options -j, -f, and -c can also be passed to fence_tool which
passes them on to fenced.

A node must not leave the fence domain (fenced must not be terminated)
while CLVM or GFS are in use.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-w\fP
Wait until the join is completed.  "fence_tool join -w" is
equivalent to "fence_tool join; fence_tool wait"
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Help.  Print out the usage syntax.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print version information.
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Enable debugging output and don't fork (also passed to fenced)
.TP
\fB-j\fP \fIsecs\fP
Post-join fencing delay (passed to fenced)
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIsecs\fP
Post-fail fencing delay (passed to fenced)
.TP
\fB-c\fP
All nodes are in a clean state to start (passed to fenced)

.SH SEE ALSO
fenced(8), fence(8), fence_node(8)
