.TH fence_eps 8

.SH NAME
fence_eps - I/O Fencing agent for ePowerSwitch 8M+ power switch

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_eps
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_eps is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the ePowerSwitch 8M+ power
switch to fence connected machines. Fence agent works (in 2008/10/21) ONLY on 8M+
device, because this is only one, which has support for hidden page feature.

Agent basically works by connecting to hidden page and pass appropriate arguments
to GET request. This means, that hidden page feature must be enabled and properly
configured.

fence_eps accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.
Fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_eps
can be run by itself with command line options.  This is useful for testin
and for turning outlets on or off from scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fR
IP address or hostname of ePowerSwitch 8M+ device. If device is configured
to listen on nonstandard port (other than 80), it's possible to use :port syntax
(ex. psip:8080).
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fR
The action required.  This can be reboot (default), status, off or on.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIscript\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIname\fR
Physical plug number. Entered without P and with preceding zero (where is needed).
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIname\fR
Name of hidden page. Default is (hidden.htm)
.TP
\fB-T\fP
Test only.  Answer NO to the confirmation prompt instead of YES.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet mode.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose. Record session to stdout, or debug file if specified (see -D).
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Specifies file, where will be written debug messages from session.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_eps.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of ePowerSwitch 8M+ device. If device is configured
to listen on nonstandard port (other than 80), it's possible to use :port syntax
(ex. psip:8080).
.TP
\fIlogin = < param >\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
The action required.  This can be reboot (default), status, off or on.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fIport = < param >\fR
Physical plug number. Entered without P and with preceding zero (where is needed)
.TP
\fIhidden_page = < param >\fR
Name of hidden page. Default is (hidden.htm)
.TP
\fItest = < param >\fR
Test only.  Answer NO to the confirmation prompt instead of YES.
.TP
\fIverbose = < param >\fR
Verbose.  Record session to stdout, or debug file if specified (see debug).
.TP
\fIdebug = < param >\fR
Specifies file, where will be written debug messages from session.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
