.TH fence_drac 8

.SH NAME
fence_drac - fencing agent for Dell Remote Access Card 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
fence_drac
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_drac is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the Dell Remote
Access Card (DRAC).  This card provides remote access to controlling 
power to a server.  It logs into the DRAC through the telnet interface of
the card.  By default, the telnet interface is not enabled.  To enable the
interface, you will need to use the racadm command in the racser-devel rpm 
available from Dell.  To enable telnet on the DRAC:

[root]# racadm config -g cfgSerial -o cfgSerialTelnetEnable 1

[root]# racadm racreset

fence_drac accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
Fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_drac 
can be run by itself with command line options.  This is useful for testing 
and for turning outlets on or off from scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fR
IP address or hostname of the switch.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcmd_prompt\fR
Force fence_drac to use cmd_prompt as the command prompt
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIdracversion\fR
Force fence_drac to treat the device as though it was for the specified drac version
.TP
\fB-D\fP \fIdumpfile\fR
Debug file of the telnet interaction
.TP
\fB-h\fP 
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImodulename\fR
The module name of the blade when using DRAC/MC firmware.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fR
The action required.  reboot (default), off, on or status.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIaction = < param >\fR
The action required.  reboot (default), off, on or status.
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_apc.
.TP
\fIcmd_prompt = < param >\fr
Force fence_drac to use cmd_prompt as the command prompt
.TP
\fIdrac_version = < param >\fr 
Force fence_drac to treat the device as though it was for the specified drac version.
.TP
\fIdebug = < dumpfile >\fR
Debug file of the telnet interaction
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the switch.
.TP
\fIlogin = < param >\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fImodulename = < param >\fr
The module name of the blade when using DRAC/MC firmware.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
