.TH fence_rackswitch 8

.SH NAME
fence_rackswitch - I/O Fencing agent for RackSaver RackSwitch

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_rackswitch
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_rackswitch is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the RackSaver 
RackSwitch.  It logs into the RackSwitch and boots a specified plug.
Using the http interface to the RackSwitch should be avoided while a GFS cluster is 
running because the connection may interfere with the operation of this agent.

fence_rackswitch accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
fenced sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_rackswitch 
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address of the switch.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIplug\fP
The plug number to power cycle.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIusername\fP
Username for login.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet operation.  Only print out error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_rackswitch.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < ip >\fR
IP address of the switch.
.TP
\fIusername = < param >\fR
Username for login.
.TP
\fIpassword = < param >\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fIport = < param >\fR
The port (outlet) number to act upon.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
