.TH fence_zvm 8

.SH NAME
fence_zvm - I/O Fencing agent for GFS on s390 and zSeries VM clusters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_zvm
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_zvm is an I/O Fencing agent used on a GFS virtual machine in a s390 or zSeries VM cluster.
It uses the s3270 program to log the specified virtual machine out of VM.
For fence_zvm to execute correctly, you must have s3270 in your PATH.

fence_zvm accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.
fence_node sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.
fence_zvm can be run by itself with command line options which is useful
for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address or hostname of the Physical machine (required).
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIuserid\fP
userid of the virtual machine to fence (required).
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
password of the virtual machine to fence (required).
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password of the virtual machine to fence.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
quiet mode, no output.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fP
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_zvm.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fP
IP address or hostname of the Physical machine (required).
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fP
password of the virtual machine to fence (required).
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password of the virtual machine to fence.
.TP
\fIuserid = < param >\fP
userid of the virtual machine to fence (required).

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fenced(8), fence_node(8)
