.\"  Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc.  1997-2003  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"  This copyrighted material is made available to anyone wishing to use,
.\"  modify, copy, or redistribute it subject to the terms and conditions
.\"  of the GNU General Public License v.2.

.TH fence_bullpap 8

.SH NAME
fence_bullpap - I/O Fencing agent for Bull FAME architecture controlled by a 
PAP management console.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_bullpap
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_bullpap is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with Bull's NovaScale
machines controlled by PAP management consoles.  This agent calls Bull's
support software provided by the NSMasterHW RPM available from Bull.

fence_bullpap accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
fenced sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_bullpap
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address or hostname of the PAP management console.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fP
Login with administrative privileges.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIdomain\fP
This is the domain name of the Bull machine to power-cycle.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIoption\fP
Action to perform (on, off, reboot, status).
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet operation.  Only print out error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the PAP management console.
.TP
\fIlogin= < param >\fR
Login with administrative privileges.
.TP
\fIdomain = < param >\fR
This is the domain name of the Bull machine to power-cycle.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
Action to perform (on, off, reboot, status).
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
