.TH fence_wti 8

.SH NAME
fence_wti - I/O Fencing agent for WTI Network Power Switch

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_wti
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_wti is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the WTI Network 
Power Switch (NPS).  It logs into an NPS via telnet or ssh and boots a specified plug.
Lengthy telnet connections to the NPS should be avoided while a GFS cluster is 
running because the connection will block any necessary fencing actions.

fence_wti accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
fenced sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_wti 
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address of the switch.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIplug\fP
The plug number to power cycle.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password for login or for passphrase.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIscript\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fB-x\fP
Use secure connection over ssh.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-T\fP
Test only.  Do not power cycle.  Reports state of the plug.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet operation.  Only print out error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_wti.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the switch.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login or for passphrase.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fIidentity_file = < param > \fR
Identity file (private key) for ssh.
.TP
\fIsecure = < param >\fR
Use secure connection over ssh.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fIport = < param >\fR
The outlet number to act upon.
.TP
\fItest = < param >\fR
Test only.  Answer NO to the confirmation prompt instead of YES.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
