.TH fence_bladecenter 8

.SH NAME
fence_bladecenter - I/O Fencing agent for IBM Bladecenter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_bladecenter
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_bladecenter is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with IBM
Bladecenters with recent enough firmware that includes telnet support.  It
logs into a Brocade chasis via telnet or ssh and uses the command line
interface to power on and off blades. fence_bladecenter accepts options on
the command line or from stdin.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address of the Bladecenter.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fP
Login name for the Bladecenter.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIblade\fP
The blade to operate on.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fP
The action required.  Valid actions are on, off, reboot (default) and status.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password for login or for passphrase.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIscript\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIidentity\fR
Identity file (private key) for ssh connection.
.TP
\fB-x\fP
Use secure connection over ssh.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet mode: print only error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.
.TP
\fB-v\fP \fIdebuglog\fP
Log the telnet session to \fIdebuglog\fP for debugging purposes.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_bladecenter.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the switch.
.TP
\fIlogin = < param >\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
The action required.  disable (default) or enable.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login or for passphrase.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fIidentity_file = < param > \fR
Identity file (private key) for ssh.
.TP
\fIsecure = < param >\fR
Use secure connection over ssh.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fIblade = < param >\fR
The blade to operate on.
.TP
\fIdebuglog = < param>\fR
Optional parameter to send debug transcript of the telnet session to a log file

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
