.TH fence_ipmilan 8

.SH NAME
fence_ipmilan - I/O Fencing agent for machines controlled by IPMI over
LAN.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_ipmilan
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_ipmilan is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with 
machines controlled by IPMI.  This agent calls support software
using ipmitool (http://ipmitool.sf.net/).

fence_ipmilan accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
fenced sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_ipmilan
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fP
IP address or hostname of the IPMI controller.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fP
Login (if required) with administrative privileges.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIoption\fP
Action to perform (on, off, reboot).
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password (if required) for login.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-P\fP
Use the lanplus option if this is a lanplus capable interface (for example iLo2)
.TP
\fB-A\fP \fIAuthentication Type\fP
Can be set to none, password, md2, or md5.
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fICiphersuite Type\fP
If you are using lanplus, this option avails you to define type of ciphersuite to
use. Standard is 3 (defined if you just use lanplus). For more information please
refer ipmitool man page (option -C).
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fItimeout\fP
Timeout in seconds for IPMI operation. Default is 10, but in some cases it
must be set to higher value (anything above 30 is not recommended and may
cause strange problems).
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet operation.  Only print out error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose mode.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the IPMI controller.
.TP
\fIlogin= < param >\fR
Login (if required) with administrative privileges.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
Action to perform (on, off, reboot).
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password (if required) for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fIauth = < param >\fR
Authentication type (none, password, md2, md5).
.TP
\fItimeout = < param >\fR
Timeout in seconds for IPMI operation. Default is 10, but in some cases it
must be set to higher value (anything above 30 is not recommended and may
cause strange problems).
.TP
\fIcipher = < param >\fR
If you are using lanplus, this option avails you to define type of ciphersuite to
use. Standard is 3 (defined if you just use lanplus). For more information please
refer ipmitool man page (option -C).
.TP
\fIlanplus\fR
If we are using the lanplus option for ipmitool

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), ipmitool(1)
