.TH fence_cpint 8

.SH NAME
fence_cpint - I/O Fencing agent for GFS on s390 and zSeries VM clusters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_cpint
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_cpint is an I/O Fencing agent used on a virtual machine running GFS in a
s390 or zSeries VM cluster.
It uses the cpint package to send a CP LOGOFF command to the specified virtual
machine.
For fence_cpint to execute correctly, you must have the cpint module installed,
and hcp in your PATH.
\fBNOTE:\fP for fence_cpint to send a command to another virtual machine, the
machine executing it must either be a privilege class C user or it must be
the secondary user of the virtual machine to be fenced.  This means that unless
all of you GULM server nodes are privilege class C, fence_cpint can only be
used with SLM.

fence_cpint accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.
fence_node sends the options through stdin when it execs the agent.
fence_cpint can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for
testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIuserid\fP
userid of the virtual machine to fence (required).
.TP
\fB-q\fP
quiet mode, no output.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_cpint.
.TP
\fIuserid = < parm >\fP
userid of the virtual machine to fence (required).

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
