.TH fence_rsb 8

.SH NAME
fence_rsb - I/O Fencing agent for Fujitsu-Siemens RSB

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
fence_rsb
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_rsb is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with the Fujitsu-Siemens
RSB management interface.  It logs into an RSB device via telnet and reboots
the associated machine. Lengthy telnet connections to the RSB device 
should be avoided while a GFS cluster is running because the connection 
will block any necessary fencing actions.

fence_rsb accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
Fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_rsb
can be run by itself with command line options.  This is useful for testing.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fR
IP address or hostname of the RSB device.
.TP
\fB-h\fP 
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fItelnet_port\fR
The port number on which the telnet service listens.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fR
The action required.  This can be reboot (default), off, on, or status.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIpath\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose.  Print informational messages to standard out.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_rsb.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of the device.
.TP
\fItelnet_port = < port number >\fR
The port number on which the telnet service listens.
.TP
\fIlogin = < param >\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
The action required.  This can be reboot (default), off, on, or status.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Full path to an executable to generate the password for login.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
