.TH fence_xvmd 8

.SH NAME
fence_xvmd - I/O Fencing agent host for Xen virtual machines.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_xvmd
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_xvmd is an I/O Fencing host which resides on dom0 and is used in
conjunction with the fence_xvm fencing agent.  Together, these two programs
can be used to fence can be used to fence Xen virtual machines which are
part of a cluster.  There is a requirement that the parent 
dom0s are also a part of their own CMAN/OpenAIS based cluster, and that
the dom0 cluster does not share any members with the domU cluster.
Furthermore, the dom0 cluster is required to have fencing if domU recovery
is expected to be automatic.

fence_xvmd accepts options on the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f\fP
Foreground mode (do not fork)
.TP
\fB-d\fP
Enable debugging output.  The more times you specify this parameter,
the more debugging output you will receive.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfamily\fP
IP family to use (auto, ipv4, or ipv6; default = auto)
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIaddress\fP
Multicast address to listen on (default=225.0.0.12 for ipv4, ff02::3:1
for ipv6)
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIport\fP
Port to use (default=1229)
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIauth\fP
Authentication type (none, sha1, sha256, sha512; default=sha256).  This
controls the authentication mechanism used to authenticate clients.  The
three SHA hashes use a key which must be shared between both the Xen virtual
machines and the host domain-0 cluster.  The three SHA authentication 
mechanisms use a simple bidirectional challenge-response based on pseudo-
random number generation and a shared private key.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIhash\fP
Packet hash type (none, sha1, sha256, sha512; default=sha256).  This
controls the hashing mechanism used to authenticate fencing requests.  The
three SHA hashes use a key which must be shared between both the Xen virtual
machines and the host domain-0 cluster.
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIkey_file\fP
Use the specified key file for packet hashing / SHA authentication.
When both the hash type and the authentication type are set to "none",
this parameter is ignored.
.TP
\fB-u\fP
Fence by UUID instead of Xen Domain name.
.TP
\fB-?\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-X\fP
Do not connect to CCS for configuration; only use command line
parameters.  CCS configuration parameters override command line
parameters (because they are cluster-wide), so if you need to 
override a configuration option contained in CCS, you must specify
this parameter.
\fB-V\fP
.TP
\fB-L\fP
Local-only / non-cluster mode.  When used with -X, this this option
prevents fence_xvmd from operating as a clustered service, obviating
the need to configure/run CMAN on the host domain.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH CCS PARAMETERS
CCS options are simply attributes of the <fence_xvmd> tag, a
child of the <cluster> tag in /etc/cluster/cluster.conf.
.TP
\fIdebug="1"\fR
Same as the -d option.  Specify numbers >1 for more debugging information.
.TP
\fIfamily="param"\fR
Same as the -i option.
.TP
\fImulticast_address="param"\fR
Same as the -a option.
.TP
\fIport="param"\fR
Same as the -p option.
.TP
\fIauth="param"\fR
Same as the -C option.
.TP
\fIhash="param"\fR
Same as the -c option.
.TP
\fIkey_file="param"\fR
Same as the -k option.
.TP
\fIuse_uuid="1"\fR
Same as the -u option.
.TP


.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), fence_xvm(8)
