.TH fence_xcat 8

.SH NAME
fence_xcat - I/O Fencing agent for xcat environments

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
fence_xcat
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_xcat is a wrapper to the rpower(1) command that is distributed
with the xCAT project available at http://www.xcat.org.  Use of 
fence_xcat requires that xcat has already been properly configured
for your environment.  Refer to xCAT(1) for more information on 
configuring xCAT.

fence_xcat accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.
fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_xcat 
can be run by itself with command line options which is useful for testing.

NOTE: It is recommended that fence_bladecenter(8) is used instead of fence_xcat if
the bladecenter firmware supports telnet.  This interface is much cleaner and
easier to setup.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fP
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fInodename\fP
The nodename as defined in nodelist.tab of the xCAT setup.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fP
The action required.  on, off, reset (default) or stat.
.TP
\fB-r\fP \fIrpower\fP
The path to the rpower binary.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Quiet mode: print only error messages.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_xcat.
.TP
\fInodename = < param >\fR
The nodename as defined in nodelist.tab of the xCAT setup.
.TP
\fIaction = < param >\fR
The action required.  on, off, reset (default) or stat.
.TP
\fIrpower = < param >\fR
The path to the rpower binary.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8), fence_bladecenter(8), nodelist.tab(8), rpower(1), xCAT(1)
