.TH fence_vmware 8

.SH NAME
fence_alom - I/O Fencing agent for Sun Advanced Lights Out Manager (ALOM)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
fence_alom
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
fence_alom is an I/O Fencing agent which can be used with ALOM connected machines.

fence_alom accepts options on the command line as well as from stdin.  
Fenced sends parameters through stdin when it execs the agent.  fence_alom
can be run by itself with command line options.  This is useful for testing 
and for turning outlets on or off from scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fIIPaddress\fR
IP address or hostname of ALOM.
.TP
\fB-h\fP 
Print out a help message describing available options, then exit.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIlogin\fR
Login name.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIaction\fR
The action required.  Reboot (default), Status, Off or On.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpassword\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fB-B\fP \fIscript\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fB-x\fP
Use secure connection over ssh (this is default, and can't be disabled) 
.TP
\fB-T\fP
Test only.  Answer NO to the confirmation prompt instead of YES.
.TP
\fB-v\fP
Verbose. Record session to stdout, or debug file if specified (see -D).
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Specifies file, where will be written debug messages from session.
.TP
\fB-V\fP
Print out a version message, then exit.

.SH STDIN PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIagent = < param >\fR
This option is used by fence_node(8) and is ignored by fence_alom.
.TP
\fIipaddr = < hostname | ip >\fR
IP address or hostname of ALOM.
.TP
\fIoption = < param >\fR
The action required.  Reboot (default), Off or On.
.TP
\fIpasswd = < param >\fR
Password for login.
.TP
\fIpasswd_script = < param >\fR
Script to run to retrieve password.
.TP
\fIsecure = < param >\fR
Use secure connection over ssh (this is default, and can't be disabled) 
.TP
\fItest = < param >\fR
Test only.  Answer NO to the confirmation prompt instead of YES.
.TP
\fIverbose = < param >\fR
Verbose.  Record session to stdout, or debug file if specified (see debug).
.TP
\fIdebug = < param >\fR
Specifies file, where will be written debug messages from session.

.SH SEE ALSO
fence(8), fence_node(8)
